There is two layers to the portal subsystem. Both are outside of the
core system (and therefor only use the API service to access the core
system).

The inner layer handles the forms presentation and submission (business
logic), including field validation (the data submitted to the API MUST
always be correct). It is stateless. It can only be accessed by the
outter layer (i.e. no direct customer access); the outer layer provides
all stateful information (e.g. user_id, account_id, etc.) to the inner
layer. (By the time a request reaches the inner layer, it has both been
authenticated and authorized; this means authorization is done at the
operation level, since the outter layer on the other hand does not have
visibility into the inner layer's data structures.)
The inner layer probably will need some kind of local storage to define
for example which plans are accessible to a given customer account (or
account_sub) in case customers are allowed to change plans on their own.
(The actual mapping between an account_sub and a plan is stored inside
the core system's provisioning database, however.)

The outer layer handles the user-level interaction. It is stateful
(and provides session management). It relies on a portal database (or
other storage method) which is independent from the other systems.

Outer layer roles:
- locale/language selection
- user registration
- user authentication
- session management
- account selection (once logged in)
- authorization (including generating menus, etc.)
- I18N/L10N of the above roles

Inner layer roles:
- forms presentation, validation, and submission
- web User Interface (UI) (with option AJAX/DHTML features)
- REST/JSON interface (operations identical to web UI)
- I18N/L10N of interactive (web UI) forms

The link between the two should be as loose as possible. Basically the
scheme looks as follows:

  for outer-layer operations (e.g. language selection, registration, ..)
    client --- outer_layer

  for form presentation/validation (but no final submission)
    client --- outer_layer --- inner_layer <-- API (core)

  for submission
    client --- outer_layer --- inner_layer <-> API (core)

